Hello, I'm A.J. Maine and this is the
Open AI podcast. Today we're talking to
Asaad Awon about ads in Chat GPT, how
they'll look, who will see them, and how
the company will preserve user trust.
Ads are shown to people who are on the
free and the gold tier. For pro and plus
and for enterprise, there are no ads. Is
creepy okay? If it is good, it's not. We
are in the business of trust. So I think
if we have to say what is our core
business, it's like to win users' trust.
So from a consumer point of view, why
ads, why now? It goes [snorts] back to
our mission, which is bringing AGI to
all of humanity and to benefit all of
humanity.
So when you have a consumer product
which like, you know, 800 million plus
people were using this, then how do you
take the best version of that product to
everyone?
And and ads is one of the most proven
models to be able to do that for
consumer products.
And I think the other part of that
mission is how do you benefit all of
humanity, which is like you want to take
the best model, you want to give the
highest limits, usage limits to people.
You want to
for the ads to be actually helpful both
to the users and the businesses as well.
So so I think it's a very natural fit
for a company whose ambition is actually
to take the best AI to all of all of
humanity. It's a very interesting
decision because on one hand, you could
say, "Hey, we're going to take what we
perceive as the high road and say we're
not going to do ads, but also we're not
going to give a really good amount of
usage for it and limit that and sort of
maybe use not the most capable models,
but sort of, you know, say take that
approach versus embracing it." Yeah.
Yeah, I think like if if if the goal is
to truly democratize access, I think ads
is a good model. I think maybe what is
hidden in that statement is
can ads be bad? And and the reality is
how do we think about the principles of
ads? How do we actually set a really
high bar for what ads should be on this
platform? How do we make them actually
useful? So when we were starting off, we
we thought like, "Hey, what would be the
core principles that we would announce
to the world that we would be proud of,
that we would stand behind, and as a
result, create a really great product?"
So, so, just to give the example of the
principles, it's like, number one, the
answers need to be independent from the
ads, both visually, but also in how the
models are trained and how the system
works,
so that you can always trust the answer.
Like, the whole product ChatGPT product
is based on trust, so actually it needs
to feed into that.
>> [snorts]
>> The second is, your conversations are
private. If you have a sensitive
conversation, that will never have ads
in it.
And and the conversations are never
shared with advertisers. So, while we do
the matching between the best ad that
can be a useful thing in a conversation,
the advertisers don't get to see that.
We do that matching internally. And
then, of course, like, you know, as as
you introduce ads, a big question is,
how did you know about this data? Like,
that's the difference between the user
trust and just like doing something
which is relevant to the user.
And our goal was, how do we make
something which users can transparently
understand, how can they control, and
and we can go into that, because I do
think there is a high bar to set over
there, because you could have some
transparency, some control, which most
products have, but what would be a
really good version of that is something
that we've been thinking about. And
finally, once you add ads, I think you
have to set the incentives for the
teams, for the company, in a way that
actually continue to focus on user
value. So, you don't want to just like
get empty calorie time spent on the
platform. You want to build a very
useful product, and automatically, one
good ad is good enough, actually. So, we
don't optimize for time spent
on on the platform and focus on the user
value. So, these are the principles. So,
I think like,
so, connecting this back to your
question, is like, how do you why why
should we add ads and how to do it? I
think a part of that is, take it to all
of humanity, and that's the best
business model to do that, but
prevent all the negative things that can
happen if you're not doing it
thoughtfully, and I think being up front
with our principles, being very clear
with that,
Um, is how we're starting and then how
we will test, how we will improve, and
how we become kind of a learning
organization with respect to this. I
think that's that's how it will go. So,
you said basically there's going to be a
separation. So, if I'm talking to
Chat GPT about like, "Hey, I want to
start drinking smoothies and stuff."
It's not going to all of a sudden blurt
out like, "Well, here's a blender you
should buy." Absolutely. Yeah, I think
it's a both in terms of what the model
knows, the model doesn't know, whether
an ad is there or not. If you ask it
like, "Hey, what is this ad saying?"
It'll say, "I actually don't know." Uh,
but you can actually press some buttons
and add it to the model if you want to
ask the question. So, it's totally
totally totally separate. Totally
whatever is being displayed in the ad
space, the model has no idea that's in
it. That's right. And I think in in and
both visually as well, so that the user
can very quickly say, "Hey, this is the
answer that I got from the model." And
then there's a
bottom uh, banner which has ad in it,
uh, which is very clearly distinct. So,
visually also you don't confuse that. Of
course, we will learn how that
experience evolves, but the goal is to
both keep the system, the models very
very separate, and ad is kind of
downstream of. Okay, yeah, that's I
think that's a very important
distinction cuz I think some people have
sort of kind of tried to sort of spin
that there's some sort of collusion
between the ad part and the model part,
but you're saying the model is
completely separate.
>> Yeah. So, that's interesting. So, as I'm
having a conversation, something might
come up and I can then click and say,
"Okay, tell the model, 'Hey, I saw
this.'" Then it knows what's going on.
>> That's right. Yeah, you have to go like
in the in the first experience you like
specifically have to press a button is
like ask Chat GPT about this ad. And
that would be as if you took a link from
the internet and asked a question about
it. So, it's almost the same. You don't
want to make that experience harder. But
but if you say, "Hey, what is this ad
talking about?" It'll say, "I don't
know." It's easy to start now and say,
"Oh, yeah, we're going to do the great
thing. We'll do it right." But 10 years
later when there's an entire division in
charge of ad revenue, you might say
like, "Well, do we need the wall between
the model and the ads?" Yeah. Yeah, I
think like maybe there there there's
multiple mul- multiple angles to this.
So, one, we are in the business of
trust. So, I think if we have to say,
"What is our core business is like to
win users' trust and give amazing
answers to the question that they're
asking. That's in the in the consumer
product side. And of course on the
enterprise side, trust is everything,
which is like you're entrusting us with
your most important data. We need to of
course make maintain that. So, so
because I think like that the ambition
and the vision is so expansive, I think
trust is the central point of it. We
want to have devices which are helpful
for you.
If we truly want to be your best
personal assistant, then you need to be
able to share your most important
information, but know that it will be
dealt in a way which is like how you
would treat it yourself. So, I think our
business model is trust. This is very
different than many other scenarios. If
you're just doing like kind of a
transactional stuff, like again, you you
gave the question and answer came back
and that's the end of it. Like a search
query, I think that's that's okay, but
it is not a long-term relationship. I
think if you think of content discovery,
certainly I I mean like it it is just
pushing things
and and trust is not a core component of
that. For us, I think the whole product,
whether it's enterprise, whether it's
consumer, whether it's anything devices
in the future, they're all centered
around trust
trust and
so so so
for us it's kind of imperative. For
others, it could be optional. And I
think different companies are known for
different things and we do want to be
known for trust. And so so I think like
connecting this to the question is
will be drift. I think you can't drift
when the incentive is set up to be the
best at this and this is the goal
that we want to achieve. Everything else
is is there to support that vision, but
the over principle is trust.
OpenAI has a very huge number of people
using the free tier. And then there's
also paid subscribers and people who do
that pro users, whatever. How are ads
going to play out across the platform?
Yeah, so ads are shown to people who are
on the free and the go to you. Mhm. Um
and for pro and plus and for enterprise,
there are no ads.
>> Mhm. Um and and I think like that's
that's an important thing like the
context in which which the company
operates is actually like multiple
missions which come all together to
bring bring AI to everyone, which is
when enterprise use it, that's a very
specific contact. There is no ads over
there and there is a specific business
model around that which is very
powerful. Uh for subscribers who want
like, you know, the best like, you know,
highest limits and very advanced
features. Mhm.
>> that also works. But for a lot of
people, a lot of consumers, the best way
to do that is to have um have high
limits and free usage uh and then add
ads which are actually useful. Yeah.
I've heard people talk about, you know,
part of the goal of this is to avoid
making the free tier just like the most
limited thing available. Absolutely. I
think like that that is that is the that
is the most I think frustrating things
for a lot of real users. Just like you
ask five questions and then it just
stops in in other businesses, right?
We we I think like we want to grow that
a lot more and I think it fits with our
overall goal. Um that uh higher usage
limits is better. Mhm. Uh and how do we
fund that and be practical about it? So,
going a little bit behind the scenes,
how are these decisions made? Like who's
in the room talking about this? Yeah, I
think like this is a this is a good op-
opportunity also to talk a little bit
about like overall like there is a
company culture and I think different
companies have different cultures which
results in different products and our
our our company has like this DNA of our
research team, right?
Uh so so we have much more I think like
rigorous debates, rigorous understanding
of how should we make these principles,
how does incentives work, how does the
the model of this going to work in a way
that it doesn't get corrupted later on.
So, we have had both a lot of debates on
that which actually resulted in these
principles, which resulted in this
rubric with like hundreds of round
tables with like folks around the
company on different areas, not just
like working on ads, but everyone on
every different part of the company uh
giving feedback to create these
principles. Then we can convert those to
a very simple rubric. I think like the
rubric is user trust is the most
important thing. User trust more than
user value, which is then more important
than advertiser value, which is more
important than revenue. And I think
while this seems very straightforward,
it's actually a very very very, I think,
in-depth decision. So we can go into a
little bit just like user trust more
than user value. A good example of that
is
if I showed you a really good ad, but
and you liked it, you clicked on it, you
bought something. But later on you ask
the question, was this app listening to
me and is the mic on? That's not user
trust. You probably did provide some
value. So for us, our goal is like we we
we cannot have that. The users need to
believe and understand and control
what's happening. So that's just one
example, but I think once you set that
right rubric up, then even bottom up,
the team thinks like that.
But of course like you know as we have
different decisions at different level,
I think we have a pretty rigorous
process on how we discuss privacy within
the company, how we discuss safety
within the company, and there are very
very clear forums for that. And then of
course like as we as we make decisions
at leadership level, we one go back to
the simple rubric because although this
rubric is simple, it's actually pretty
pretty in-depth and actually is very
discriminating if you think about these
kind of questions. It's like, should the
ad be so good but the users don't know
where this data came from? Is creepy
okay if it is good? It's not. So I think
maybe it follows from that.
What am I going to see on my end? What
kind of controls do I have? How's
personalization going to work? So I
think like a big part of actually
delivering really good ads is allow
personalization so that is so when I say
I want to
go on a trip to Yosemite and then that
shows me camping gear because that's
what I'd like to do.
But of course I think the flip side of
that, how do you gain user trust is like
how did you know about this? How did you
learn about this? So one is transparency
aspect which is like you can see what is
the data that we have on you which is
being used for ads. The second is the
controls
which which let you see say which part
of the data from your past chats can be
used. Of course, sensitive chats, those
are never used.
And but you can clear your data which
actually nobody else does which is kind
of a crazy concept is like you can clear
your data so we don't know and we won't
use that. You could
say don't use my past chats if that's
what you you care about or you could say
turn off personalization fully.
Of course, there there is the other
extreme which is like I don't want ads.
That's a form of control and that's
where I think upgrading to the pro or
plus version to completely stop ads is
also there. So, I think all the way from
the spectrum of like I really care about
this. I don't think this is the right
business model like pro and plus is the
right business model
for like hey, I I don't know what we
were talking about yesterday. I'll just
clear my history. Great, do that. Or
it's like hey, I'm more comfortable with
like you know, clicks on the ads being
used but not my past conversations. You
could actually do that as well. Of
course, people will learn hopefully
experience like how it improve their
experience. We have a very high bar and
how we use these things but in the end
the users need to know and be able to to
control that.
What will be you know, the the kind of
the expectation for how many ads I'm
going to see or how often these would
come up?
Maybe the Uber principle still goes back
to in that context is there a good ad to
show which is useful. If it is not, we'd
rather not show you anything. In fact,
like you know, as we roll out this test,
you'll see that there'll be very few ads
because like you know, we want to be
both conservative and we want to learn
how to
where to insert those. But but the the
principle is little bit more around is
it useful? Is it helpful? Does it add
to to what the user is doing?
And can we actually show a really good
product as well. Um so so keep the
quality of the the content very high as
well. Keep the quality of the ad very
high as well. Keep the relevance really
high. If we can't find a good match,
it's fine. You don't need to show an ad.
You mentioned that sensitive
conversations. How do you know what
something is sensitive or not? So that's
actually one of one of the big strengths
of open AI is like both for our organic
work and a lot of research in the
company has gone into defining
what's sensitive like it is health,
politics, like violence, like many
different kind of verticals.
Um very very in-depth uh definitions of
that. And then of course using some of
the best models to actually predict and
understand the conversation and saying
marking it as sensitive or not. I think
like I've actually never seen such high
precision in any product so far in my
career what we have been able to build
over here by taking in those policies.
There's a team which works on defining
those policies very very rigorously
um
uh and then actually uh also um
sharing them with internal external
partners for review. And then of course
the enforcement that comes from the
prediction system that actually says,
"Hey, like this is matching this policy,
so don't do that." We've talked a little
bit about this, but I'd like to touch
back on this again, design. So where is
that going to head? What are they going
to look like? Um as we were designing
this product, I think like of course we
set up a very clear principle that the
that um
uh the answers are separate from the
model. And then the question was like
how does that actually look in the
product? Um and on that spectrum on one
side is like how do you make it look
native so that it's not jarring?
Um and on the other side there is a
question which is like, "Hey, how can it
be very clearly separated out?" Um and
and I think you can debate with on both
of them and there is values in both of
them and we start we we wanted to kind
of set up the experiment in a way which
is um that we can learn as we go. So we
take the conservative option and still
keep that principle in mind. And as we
learn through uh building the product to
getting the data,
evolve it. But But the idea still is how
can we maintain that principle of the
answers being very clearly separated
from the
from the ads
and having a very clear
understandability and visual
distinction. I do think we will evolve
the formats, and I think they will get
even more useful and better over time,
but that principle is constant, and
within the options that we had, we
started with something which is which is
clearly separated out and conservative.
So, you explained kind of a technical
level how there's a separation, how the
model doesn't see it, but also for
guardrails and stuff. And I think you
mentioned this before, but if I'm
talking about, you know, you know,
saying like, "Hey, I'm afraid of this
trip." And it's like, "Well, hey, how
about some life insurance?" You know,
that's not going to happen, but how do
you guys put in guardrails, and how do
you decide what's appropriate ads and
what's not? So, so maybe there's two
questions in there, like what's
appropriate ads or not and which context
is a reasonable one.
And the second is what are the controls
in place so that, like, you know, over
time this doesn't doesn't dissolve. So,
I think maybe a part of announcing our
principles and being very clear
internally for a rubric was to actually
set that up in the first place. Then
automatically a lot of the governance
within the company, how we make
decisions follows from that
onwards. So, it's like, "Hey, I want to
make this change to the product." Do
this fit with this principle? Do this
fit with this rubric that we have
already set up? That's the first pass. I
think the sensitive context is is
something that we take very seriously as
well. Very simple things like, you know,
conversations around health
or politics or other contexts where
where the ads don't fit, and that data
is not going to be used for making ads,
like, even even matching ads. You just
filter it out. So, the first layer is
really see does an ad belong here. If it
does and it can be helpful and additive,
then add it.
I think like this goes back to the
principle is like actually you don't
ruin neither for users nor for
businesses by showing many ads because
you don't want advertisers to pay
randomly for impressions. You don't want
users to see too many ads. You want to
share the one right ad and being one of
like, you know, the
best AI company, I think that's
hopefully something we'll do really
well. Every time we do an episode, we
get a few people who go in the comments
are like, "No ads. No ads. No ads." Now
is your chance to talk to those people
directly.
Yeah, I think I think like in in some
sense the when when people say no ads, I
I feel like there is a perception and
it's not wrong that
uh because I think like maybe how how
the industry has evolved that there is
some suspicion around how this works.
So, I do think it is kind of incumbent
on us to come up with better principles,
get a better clarity, better rules on
how we're going to do this. I think
there is like we like again this whole
ad industry, if you think about the
online ad industry is like maybe 20
years old compared to many other
industries which are hundreds of years
old. So, I think maybe we are in the
third inning of this where we are
saying, "Okay, we have learned from all
of these questions and problems that
people have." I think when people say no
ads, I do believe that they have valid
questions and concerns around privacy.
The it's on us to do a really good job
to earn their trust uh through better
transparency, through better control,
through uh
through building that is also
delightful. Um
uh I think there still be skeptics and
then I think we have a way to upgrade
because I think that's a valid choice as
well. Uh but uh
but enabling really good ads with good
principles, I think it's possible. I
think a big part of it is
having really strong AI to power these
ads also so that they are actually
useful and then as a result bring this
product to so many people without with
with higher limits.
Some of your competitors have been
having a little bit of fun at the idea
of ads. Yeah, I I think like um
uh
different different companies have
different missions. Our mission is to
take AI to all of humanity and and um of
course we have different contexts. So,
we have the enterprise business, we have
uh you know, our subscription business,
and we have a very very huge consumer
base which is using our product. So, I
think within that context, we need to
serve each one of them. We will have a
really robust enterprise business, and
there will be no ads over there. And
then, we'll have a very robust consumer
business, and ads will help us grow uh
within that. Uh so, I think if if that's
not your mission, maybe it doesn't make
sense, but our mission is to to actually
build in all of these contacts, and we
believe they're all actually related uh
in in how we build the best AI, and then
actually take it to everyone. And I
think the good part is that we have
different verticals in the business
line. So, it's not just an ads company.
There are some companies which are
purely just ads companies, and there the
incentives are actually different.
>> Yeah. But, I think we have a much more
holistic view on on this. And also, when
you're not serving hundreds of millions
of free users, it's easier to sort of
say, "Hey, we don't have to do this." I
don't think it's like a vision vision
which is which is set in abstract. This
is truly a vision which is like, how
does AI actually help people? And if if
there is like this elitist view that
some people get to use it, and some
don't get to use it based on who can
pay, I think like that itself is a
pretty big fork in the road in terms of
how AI can be valuable to people.
Uh and I think our position is pretty
pretty much like everybody needs to have
access to the best AI. I have friends
that have small businesses, and they are
always trying to figure out how to
promote themselves and do that. Could
you explain from that point of view like
what it's going to be like for people
who are actually trying to reach new
audiences through ads?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I think that this that's
such a good question. Like, literally um
uh
I have a few friends who started this um
e-commerce company um selling shoes, and
uh
they did almost everything on their own
like the founders. They just like uh
go to the factory, get this done, get
the logistics done. But, when it came to
ads, they actually have to had to hire
like three performance marketers to do
the work because it's so so cumbersome,
so analytical. If you don't do it right,
you could end up wasting a lot of money.
So, I do think the vision has to be
where almost as easy as you're prompting
nowadays for questions, you could say,
"Buy goal is sell these shoes more in
Midwest and go." And then it comes back
and it's like, "Hey, I tried some
experiments and I think this is the
right bid given your price point. This
is the right way to do that. Do you want
to spend more money on this?" And then
you continue that conversation and
almost become an agent for that. But
today, literally, a small business has
to hire performance marketers, which
could be one of the biggest costs. In
some sense, actually like, you know,
just that cost of running ads through
through that is actually one of the
biggest costs in there.
Um uh which which of course then makes
things more expensive. So, I think the
vision would be that it is as easy as
just steering and telling what you need
from your business or describing the
what but not having to think about how
it will work and how many campaigns and
how much dollars and everything else was
like, "Hey, I want to spend this much. I
want to grow my business this much.
These are the constraints and um and and
ads are created and run to match your
constraints in some sense." Yeah, it's
it's a very interesting way to think
about it because auctions were
revolutionary. The idea that you just go
in there, I want to put these words out
there and pay for that to do it. But
that created an entire ecosystem of all
this sort of expertise and stuff that
you have to do. And it's really hard for
small businesses to try to play in that
space.
>> Yeah, I think as as as the competition
on that increase, I think like the
people who had more time and money to
spend on optimizing that and analyzing
the data and then running the best
possible ad
got the benefit from that versus like if
I didn't know that like, "Hey, actually
I think I give an example of an actual
brand which is Allbirds." It competed
with really big brands on shoes. But
somehow they found that every designer
in the tech company is going to love my
shoe. And and finding that niche and
then actually being able to create your
creatives and your message to focus on
that made them win in this like if you
go in Silicon Valley you'll see all
boards everywhere because of that. So I
think like but that I think is not
accessible to everyone if you're very
analytical and you have a whole team of
people who think about that you could do
that but theoretically the best products
can come to life if you can find out
where the right niche distribution for
it is and really go go for that.
I think another story on this is like
that there is this company which creates
a vegan ramen instant ramen which I love
because I don't have to feel bad about
eating it.
But it's such a weird concept vegan
instant ramen. Like I if I was just
thinking about it without knowing about
this company I'm like this can't exist.
Who will want this? But I think a really
good product can help you find and
discover those niche audience then you
build a really good product. So I think
it enriches everyone's life from that
perspective by enabling creation of
those products, selling of those
products.
Maybe it's not a multi-billion dollar
company but that's great. That's still
it's like a really big SMB
which is growing and it serve these
people who who care about that very
specific problem.
So I think it it really enriches people
life if you are able to create products
for these niches.
What does this look like in the future
where we're using things in a more
agentic way?
How do ads even work 10 years from now?
I think
next step would be more actual
conversational ad where you could truly
kind of understand what this product is
about. The next version would be kind of
work behind the scenes and actually
aggregate the best discounts and best
deals and the best version of the
product. Like for example if I I know
that I like ramen and let's say somehow
chat GPT has understood that preference
of mine then it could find that for me.
I didn't even know that that product
exists then in behind the scenes it
could actually say oh actually I found
this vegan ramen maybe that's something
that's valuable and of course
there is a marketplace where somebody
could say, "Hey, help people who are
like this to discover." Because Because
discovery goes from both directions,
right? Like, of course, I'm searching
for something, and then people want me
to discover something, and there's a
match between those. So, so I think it
will be more authentic but
in the future,
but at least the current modalities, I
think we start from there, improve it,
and make it relevant, make it
controllable, understandable,
trustworthy. And as I think the systems
evolve, then native the organic products
evolve, this will evolve as well with
that. Excellent. Well, so I thank you
for explaining this, and I look forward
to seeing what's going to happen next.
Awesome. Thanks for having me.